# Mount an external hard disk drive (HDD) on a Raspberry Pi running Raspbian
You can access the data on your HDD by mounting the HDD on a Raspberry Pi running the Raspbian operating system. If you have an exFAT partition on your HDD, you must install the exFAT driver.

## Installing the exFAT driver
Use the Aptitude Package Manager to install the exFAT driver. Run:
```
sudo apt-get install exfat-fuse
```

## Mounting a HDD 

1. Plug-in the external HDD to a USB port on the Raspberry Pi. 
2. List the disk partitions on the device. Run: 
    ```
    sudo blkid
    ```

3. Note the location of the disk partition. For example, `/dev/sda1`.
4. Create a target folder to be the mount point of the HDD. Run: 
    ```
    sudo mkdir /mnt/PIHDD
    ```

5. Mount the HDD from the location of the partition to the mount point. Run:  
    ```
    sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/PIHDD
    ```

6. Verify that the HDD is mounted successfully by listing the content. Run: 
    ```
    ls /mnt/PIHDD
    ```

## Setting up automatic mounting
You can modify the `fstab` file to define the location where the HDD will be automatically mounted when the Raspberry Pi starts up. In the `fstab` file, the disk partition is identified by the universally unique identifier (UUID). 

1. Get the UUID of the disk partition. Run:  
    ```
    sudo blkid
    ```

2. Find the disk partition from the list and note the UUID. For example, `5C24-1453`.
3. Edit the fstab file using a command line editor such as nano. Run: 
    ```
    sudo nano /etc/fstab
    ```

4. Add the following line in the `fstab` file. 
    ```
    UID=5C24-1453 /mnt/PIHDD exfat defaults,auto,umask=000,users,rw 0 0
    ```

For more information on the Linux commands, refer to the specific manual pages using the `man` command. For example, `man fstab`.

## Unmounting a HDD
Before you unmount your HDD, ensure that there are no programs accessing the HDD.

1. Run the following command to get the list of programs using the mount point: 
    ```
    lsof /mnt/PIHDD
    ```

2. End all programs using the mount point. Run: 
    ```
    sudo kill 13827
    ``` 
    where, `13827` is the PID.  
    
    > **Note:** Ensure that you save your changes before running the `kill` command.
    
3. Unmount the HDD. Run: 
    ```
    sudo umount /mnt/PIHDD
    ```

4. Unplug the HDD and delete the mount point folder . Run: 
    ```
    sudo rmdir /mnt/PIHDD
    ```
